
-- contribution to knowledge
revise the theory, fact, methods, and application
-- contribution to society

Research is driven by issues in society

systematic, planned, repeated, measureable

1.Research Field / passion

2.Research Topic
research trends challenge topics on "nama bidang"
survey, review paper, google scholar, ACM, IEEE Explore, science direct
systematic literature review 

3.Research Problem
survey, review paper, google scholar, ACM, IEEE Explore, science direct
research problem challenge on "nama topik"
research problem must have supported literatures
survey review on "nama topik" -> technical paper (updated respected jurnal then conference)
(masalah, landasan) pair
find the problem in publications

4.State of the art methods
metode yang digunakan untuk menyelesaikan masalah penelitian / algoritma / tahapan

5.proposed methods
contribution to knowledge , dilandasi dengan reference (dibuktikan secara empiris atau matematis )

6.evaluation
validasi dengan metode standar pengukuran dan disepakati oleh para peneliti di bidang yang dilakukan
disesuikan dengan masalah dan tujuan penelitian (RP dan RO)
akurasi, efisiensi 

7.publication

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5R27oCQG6BY : Research Methodology

RP -> RQ -> RO -> paper

what is research? it was doing based on research problem not life problem
classification of research

type of contribution:
solving new problem with new method (contribution in problem and method )
solving old problem with new method (contribution in method / improvement type research)
solving new problem with old method (contribution in problem )
applying/proofing theoritical model with real implementation in hardware
Development of low-cost method/technique/hardware/system with equal performance of existing method/technique/hardware/system 

mendeley

contribution to body of knowledge and to solve problem in society


1. General issue in society (motivation and background)
2. General Problem (topic related to background)
3. literature synthesis
4. research gap
    novel, device, approachs
5. research result
6. discussion / analysis--> answer no.4 and compared to no. 3 previous research (showing improvement)
7. implication, future work --> answer no 2. and 1.
8. conclusion


1. Choose an interesting area for research
2. Identify an interesting research topic (a problem for which there is no good solution)
3. Have some good idea how to improve the state of the art
4. Show that your idea works: e.g.
    Apply it to some examples (realistic case studies, if possible)
    Prove some properties of your approach (logical properties or analytical performance predictions) and show that it is better than the current state of the art
    Do simulation studies (e.g. for performance) and show that your approach is better than the current state of the art
    Build a software tool that supports your approach
5. Do a systematic comparison with other approaches to the same problem and discuss advantages AND disadvantages of your approach
6. Write up your results in some papers which make these results accessible to the interested expert.